so we got a chance to unbox the pro and
pro Max iPhone 16 but what about the
standard iPhone 16s which in some ways
seem more interesting this generation
because they have most of what the pro
and pro Max have but at a more
affordable price and arguably in colors
that people are more excited for MO is
definitely more excited for these colors
right here this one they're calling teal
maybe this one's my favorite I don't
know San Jose Sharks this is Mo's
favorite which is called ultramarine and
I think he likes it because it's called
ultramarine at least has to be part of
it obviously we have the plus and the
standard size they've rearranged the
camera layout on the back these devices
do have quite a bit of wobble because of
that camera layout I'm going to compare
the wobble to the previous generation
with the diagonal camera layout we'll do
a wobble comparison very soon I was
surprised that Apple gave the camera
control functionality to the standard
model not just the pro cuz it kind of
seems like a pro feature and a way for
them to differentiate but they know more
than I do they got all kinds of data and
market research that is a beautiful
color ultramarine yeah they have all
kinds of data to suggest where they need
to be at from a price point perspective
and which ones are going to be their hot
models and which features they should
have in there so we have camera control
on the standard iPhone this is a little
bit lighter there's no titanium here
we've got the aluminum frame finish on
the back I think it's pretty nice I mean
definitely an iPhone I'm pretty sure
that's an iPhone USBC we also got the
physical SIM tray Canadian version we
have eim buil in as well big power
switch volume rocker action button
pretty nice package starting at a lot
less than the pro model the unboxing
experience is identical as we carry on
braided USBC cable packed up in the
origami style and the good old SIM tool
unchanged for Generations now when it
comes to comparing the 15 to the 16 good
Lord they are very very similar very
very similar in form factor let's do
that wobble test that I am so curious
about in the very Corner we're okay on
the 15 as we move up the device we
increase our wobble we do get wobble in
the very oh we got a double wobble it's
it's more wobbly we get wobble here
wobble here wobble here whatever I mean
a lot of smartphones are wobbling at
this point it's a plague it's a wobble
plague of course Google cares about
these things shots fired that's up to
you to decide all right let's move on to
the teal see how it compares to the
ultramarine and this is the plus siiz
iPhone 16 standard oh I love it is it
enough to persuade Mo to change his mind
oh ultramarine versus teal teal is very
nice teal is very nice he says teal is
very nice do we have previous gen plus
we do and once again we are extremely
comparable wobble test oh wobble test
gets even worse that one wobbles if you
touch it if you try to make it wobble
but when you place it down it's no
wobble this one you place it down and it
just wobbles see what I mean it just
wobbles when you just place it on the
table 15 sits there unless you aim to
make it wobble okay I'm going nuts here
with this wobble thing but if we go
instead and compare to the new Pro
Models we can see the scale difference
there Pro Max versus iPhone 16 and pro
16 versus standard 16 you can also tell
here that the non-pro variant is
slightly thinner which is cool I mean
it's slight but it is there this episode
has been sponsored by ESR and their
brand new iPhone 16 cases so let's start
with the tough case exceed 7x military
grade protection foldable stash stand
built in designed to work with mag save
this is going to be your super rugged
option you can see the mag safe on the
back and we have a multi-layer setup we
have coverage on the power port and of
course we've also got access for camera
control now so this is what's called the
foldable stash stand and this obviously
allows you to have a better viewing
experience hybrid case with stash stand
clear color Halo lock magnetic case
stash stand still get that functionality
like that slightly less of a tank than
the tough case but arguably more stylish
I also notice that the stand changes
color from a darker metallic to a silver
so next up we have the soft case
satisfying texture very soft still got
our mag safe built in still have access
to our camera control a microfiber soft
touch interior they're actually stating
that this one is 3x military grade
protection as well so similar protection
level to the hybrid the other thing
about the stand is you can pick uh
between a number of angles depending on
what what's ideal and then last up we
have their new Ultra tempered glass
screen protectors with their included
applicator you simply drop it into this
jig pull the tab and the screen
protector is installed perfectly so let
me know down in the comments if you're
going to pick up one of these new cases
for your new iPhone 16 Pro or Pro Max
which go for the tough the hybrid or the
soft okay so I got them both booted up
now I have to admit that just handling
the devices the regular iPhone 16 is the
most comfortable to hold one hand
two-handed it's the thinnest lightest so
I'm not too surprised by that now let's
talk a little bit about the differences
between the 16 and the 15 the display
it's identical we now have the action
button where the switch used to be so we
get to feel like we bought the pro model
even though we didn't that's good apple
Intelligence coming soon don't call it
AI unless you're going to say the whole
thing Apple intelligence they invented
it you didn't know it was never
artificial it was always Apple
intelligence the most intelligent oh we
got the camera control functionality now
that wasn't on the previous generation
it's now capable of macro on that same
camera spatial photos and videos and
you're getting the latest generation
photographic styles that come with that
a18 chip how about I give you a little
improved battery life to the tune of 2
hours mag safe wireless charging has
improved it's faster now this is looking
a lot like the pro spec sheet except you
don't have to pay as much I think a lot
of people are just going to go with this
one maybe not this color because Mo and
I both agree that in person I think he
used the term radioactive which is maybe
a little extreme there something off
about this color in person I don't know
to each their own but the more I look at
it the more I'm like teal and I say it
in that exact voice I go like this I go
teal 128 GB teal they're like sir what
is the matter with you ay one nit
minimum brightness it is like I'm
reading the pro spec sheet here
cinematic video stabilization why do you
have to buy the pro model why you got to
buy huh to get an extra camera I guess
and to get your titanium bro your
phone's not even titanium so bro your
phone's not even titanium so what are we
doing what are we doing your phone's not
even titanium so what do we do so
everybody knows that guy everybody knows
that guy you've met that guy before
listen this is the phone you should get
just get the iPhone 16 that's my verdict
this year if you have to get an iPhone
this year Lam yeah why you need the pro
model mo why you yelling about the pro
model pro model this PR model that okay
the wide doesn't look the ultra wide
maybe doesn't look quite as good these
ones look good though look at those look
at the regular standard focal length 1X
that's kind of what you're lacking there
your Ultra y doesn't look quite as good
it's tough on these screens like it just
look at the roof the sharp like it's
it's just obvious there's just too much
resolution on the other one I presume
that on video we're going to be 4K 60 we
got the same chip right 4K 60 and no 4K
120 cuz otherwise what is pro that's
okay here is a video sample 4K 60 and mo
changed his Jersey New Jersey New Jersey
New Jersey
oh there we go modeling Mo the model
this one is here he goes oh here we go
yeah damn dude sound good e
jeez you didn't have to do them like
that titanium bro we quickly get in the
camera bam we're in you can pause videos
now I don't know if you knew about that
you can like pause a video recording
it's a new feature it's very useful I
use that feature I'm happy about it
continue the recording sounds see what
kind of sounds fine sounds
loud the I'll pinch for you this looks a
lot different than right in there for
you way lighter it has want yeah I think
this year maybe more than ever or more
than I can remember in recent I'm sure
other people probably said this and you
probably watch those videos too this
year I mean you probably don't really
need the pro model unless money is no
problemo and you're just give me the
Desert Storm I know it's desert Titan
sounds funnier if I say Desert Storm you
understand and it should have been more
Desert Storm color in my opinion when I
had the mockup Desert Storm man look at
that this is what I wanted instead we
got that like another like white phone
basically nah anyway this is the entry
point and it has the vast majority of
what you're going to end up using and
liking on the other devices yeah if you
can't see yourself needing those Studio
audio features the extra extra camera 4K
120 bigger battery obviously bigger
screen like if those things are not
absolutely major to you you can save
your money this year and you can get the
iPhone 16 or you can save even more
money and wait until the next Generation
it's completely up to you you know what
I mean it's 2024 like you know if you
need a new phone or not I think we're
past just buying these things every
single generation because we have to and
the iPhone always represents an
opportunity to speak to the audience on
that topic of like how often should we
be buying and upgrading things it's just
this phone is like the marker it's like
the test it's like the economic test of
like hey where are we at where's the
disposable income but then also it's
like hey where are we at from a
technology perspective like have things
in this segment kind of slowed down a
little bit like are we seeing as many
massive improvements are people feeling
as compelled these are the conversations
I have in public in public like in the
world and I suppose now in public here
on the internet which is also somewhere
in the
world good night